# UnEarthed
Food scarcity is one of the most alarming realities omnipresent in current times. Global food production must be increased by 70% till 2050 to meet the global demands. Combined with ever receding ground water levels and rapid conversion of arable lands into arid regions, innovative farming methods are the only hope for sustenance. Data driven farming is one such innovation that can revolutionize the agriculture industry as we know it.

The most common issue faced by Indian farmers today is lack of water resources and limited economic capabilities. Implementation of technology and data science is necessary to improve farm productivity and consequently, income. Unearthed aims to amalgamate both and aide in precision agriculture. Sensors distributed throughout the field would collect the data such as moisture, temperature, and pH of soil. Drones can be used to generate aerial images of the field. Though sounds a costly affair, cost of implementation can be brought down by a hypothesis that if two parts of farm look similar in multispectral image, then the values collected through sensors will be similar. Thereby, using aerial images we can consider their data to be equal without actual measurements. 

The web-app then graphically represents these data in form of heat maps with various colour gradients. Using these maps, a farmer needs to only irrigate those specific areas of the field depending on the requirement. The requirement is shown in exact volume needed in a specific region thus, area-wise irrigation can be implemented. This will prevent wastage of water as is done currently by uniformly irrigating entire fields irrespective of the need of the soil. Similarly, pH distributions can be used to decide specific manures required in specific regions as well as temperature heatmap can be used to cool down certain regions. Also, in the developed versions of our site, the combined data of can be used to predict best suitable crop for a particular field or the best suitable temperature or pH for a particular crop that we want to grow for maximum yield.
